## 1.0 Network Fundamentals
### 1.1 Compare and contrast OSI and TCP/IP models
------

Both models are frameworks to help understand network concepts and technologies. The OSI model is 7 layers and TCP/IP model is 4 layers.

#### OSI Layers: (ALL, PEOPLE, SEEM, TO, NEED, DATA, PROCESSING)
1. Physical, 2. Data Link, 3. Network, 4. Transport, 5. Session, 6. Presentation, 7. Application

#### TCP/IP Model Layers:
1. Link, 2. Internet, 3. Transport, 4. Application

#### Comparison of the two models:
| OSI Model | Protocols and Services | PDU | TCP/IP Model |
| ------------- | ------------- | ---- | ---------- |
| 7. Application  | HTTP, FTP | Data | Application |
| 6. Presentation  | Telnet, NTP  | Data | Application |
| 5. Session | DHCP, PING | Data | Application |
| 4. Transport | TCP, UDP | Segment | Transport |
| 3. Network | IP, ARP, ICMP, IGMP | Packet | Network |
| 2. Data Link | Ethernet, Wireless | Frame | Network Interface |
| 1. Physical | Framerelay, ATM | Bits | Network Interface |

#### Layer Descriptions:
1. Physical Layer – Defines how to move bits from one device to another. It details how cables, connectors and network interface cards are going to work and how to send and receive bits.
 
2. Data Link Layer – Encapsulates a packet in a frame. A frame contains a header and a trailer that enable devices to communicate. A header contains a source and a destination MAC address. A trailer contains the Frame Check Sequence field, which is used to detect transmission errors.

The data link layer has two sublayers:
* Logical Link Control – used for flow control and error detection
* Media Access Control – used for hardware addressing and controlling the access method
 
3. Network Layer – Defines device addressing, routing, and path determination. Device (logical) addressing is used to identify a host on a network (e.g. by its IP address).
 
4. Transport Layer – Segments great chunks of data received from the upper layer protocols. Establishes and terminates connections between two computers. Used for flow control and data recovery.
 
5. Session Layer – Defines how to establish and terminate a session between the two systems.
 
6. Presentation Layer – Defines data formats. Compression and encryption are defined at this layer.
 
7. Application Layer – This layer is the closest to the user. It enables network applications to communicate with other network applications.

### 1.2 Compare and contrast TCP and UDP protocols
------

TCP = Transmission Control Protocol
* Connection oriented - Supports windowing and has inbuilt error detection and recovery.
* Provides reliable, ordered and error-checked delivery of data.
* Used for File Transfer, Email and WWW.

UDP = User Datagram Protocol
* Simple connectionless oritented - Does no

### 1.3 Describe the impact of infrastructure components in an enterprise network
------
* 1.3.a Firewalls
* 1.3.b Access points
* 1.3.c Wireless controllers

### 1.4 Compare and contrast collapsed core and three-tier architectures
------

### 1.5 Compare and contrast network topologies
------
* 1.5.a Star
* 1.5.b Mesh
* 1.5.c Hybrid

### 1.6 Select the appropriate cabling type based on implementation requirements
------

### 1.7 Apply troubleshooting methodologies to resolve problems
------
* 1.7.a Perform fault isolation and document
* 1.7.b Resolve or escalate
* 1.7.c Verify and monitor resolution

### 1.8 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot IPv4 addressing and subnetting
------

### 1.9 Compare and contrast IPv4 address types
------
* 1.9.a Unicast
* 1.9.b Broadcast
* 1.9.c Multicast

### 1.10 Describe the need for private IPv4 addressing
------

### 1.11 Identify the appropriate IPv6 addressing scheme to satisfy addressing requirements in a LAN/WAN environment
------

### 1.12 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot IPv6 addressing
------

### 1.13 Configure and verify IPv6 Stateless Address Auto Configuration
------

### 1.14 Compare and contrast IPv6 address types
------
* 1.14.a Global unicast
* 1.14.b Unique local
* 1.14.c Link local
* 1.14.d Multicast
* 1.14.e Modified EUI 64
* 1.14.f Autoconfiguration
* 1.14.g Anycast
