## 2.0 LAN Switching Technologies - 21%

### 2.1 Describe and verify switching concepts
-----
**2.1.a MAC learning and aging**

**MAC Learning:**
* MAC learning is the process of obtaining the MAC addresses of all the nodes on a network.
* To switch frames between LAN ports efficiently, the switch maintains an address table called the MAC table.
* When the switch receives a frame, it associates the media access control (MAC) address of the sending network device with the LAN port on which it was received.
* MAC address learning is enabled on all VLANs by default
* The switch dynamically builds the address table by using the MAC source address of the frames received.
* When the switch receives a frame for a MAC destination address not listed in its address table, it floods the frame to all LAN ports of the same VLAN except the port that received the frame.
* When the destination station replies, the switch adds its relevant MAC source address and port ID to the address table.
* The switch then forwards subsequent frames to a single LAN port without flooding all LAN ports.
* You can also enter a MAC address, which is termed a static MAC address, into the table.
* These static MAC entries are retained across a reboot of the switch.

**MAC Aging:**
* MAC aging time specifies the time before an entry expires and is discarded from the MAC addres table.
* When the aging time for a MAC address in the table expires, the address is removed.
* MAC aging time can be configured in interface configuration or VLAN configuration mode.
* The range is from 0 to 1000000; the default is 300 seconds.
* Entering the value 0 disables the MAC aging.

**2.1.b Frame switching**
* LAN switches are characterized by the forwarding method that they support, such as a store-and-forward switch, cut-through switch, or fragment-free switch.
* Store-and-forward switches store the entire frame in internal memory and check the frame for errors before forwarding the frame to its destination.
* Store-and-forward switch operation ensures a high level of error-free network traffic, because bad data frames are discarded rather than forwarded across the network
* With cut-through switching, the LAN switch copies into its memory only the destination MAC address, which is located in the first 6 bytes of the frame following the preamble.
* The switch looks up the destination MAC address in its switching table, determines the outgoing interface port, and forwards the frame on to its destination through the designated switch port.
* A cut-through switch reduces delay because the switch begins to forward the frame as soon as it reads the destination MAC address and determines the outgoing switch port
* Fragment-free switching works like cut-through switching with the exception that a switch in fragment-free mode stores the first 64 bytes of the frame before forwarding.
* Fragment-free switching can be viewed as a compromise between store-and-forward switching and cut-through switching.
* The reason fragment-free switching stores only the first 64 bytes of the frame is that most network errors and collisions occur during the first 64 bytes of a frame

**2.1.c Frame flooding** - If the destination address is unknown:
* The packet will be flooded out of all forwarding ports in its VLAN (except the port it was received on). 
* The very cause of flooding is that destination MAC address of the packet is not in the L2 forwarding table of the switch.

**2.1.d MAC address table**
* A MAC address table contains the following information: VLAN's, MAC Addresses, Type (dynamic/static) and Ports.
* Static entries will persist through a reboot, dynamic entries will not.

### 2.2 Interpret Ethernet frame format
-----
An Ethernet frame is made up of a header, data and trailer.
* Preamble: 7 bytes, alternating 1s and 0s to make it easy for devices to synchronize their clocks.
* Start Frame Delimiter (SFD): 1 byte, providing byte level synchronization and marks a new incoming frame.
* Destination MAC Address: 6 bytes, identifies the intended recipient of this frame.
* Source MAC Address: 6 bytes, identifies the sender of this frame.
* Length: 2 bytes, defines the length of the data field of the frame.
* Type: 2 bytes, defines the type of protocol listed inside the frame.
* Data and Padding: 42 bytes min w/ 802.1Q tag, 46 bytes min w/out 802.1Q tag. Data/payload is all the data from higher layers, fragmented to fit the max payload size. Padding bytes are added if actual payload is not equal to 1500 bytes.
* Frame Check Sequence (FCS): 4 bytes, CRC allows detection of corrupted data w/in the entire frame as received on the receiver side. The FCS value is computed as a function of the protected MAC frame fields.

### 2.3 Troubleshoot interface and cable issues (collisions, errors, duplex, speed)
-----

### 2.4 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot VLANs (normal/extended range) spanning multiple switches
-----
**2.4.a Access ports (data and voice)**

**2.4.b Default VLAN**

### 2.5 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot interswitch connectivity
-----
**2.5.a Trunk ports**

**2.5.b Add and remove VLANs on a trunk**

**2.5.c DTP, VTP (v1&v2), and 802.1Q**

**2.5.d Native VLAN**

### 2.6 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot STP protocols
-----
**2.6.a STP mode (PVST+ and RPVST+)**

**2.6.b STP root bridge selection**

### 2.7 Configure, verify and troubleshoot STP related optional features
-----
**2.7.a PortFast**

**2.7.b BPDU guard**

### 2.8 Configure and verify Layer 2 protocols
-----
**2.8.a Cisco Discovery Protocol**

**2.8.b LLDP**

### 2.9 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot (Layer 2/Layer 3) EtherChannel
-----
**2.9.a Static**

**2.9.b PAGP**

**2.9.c LACP**

### 2.10 Describe the benefits of switch stacking and chassis aggregation
-----
