## VLAN OVERVIEW

#### Virtual Local Area Network:
VLANs are virtual separations within a switch that provide distinct logical LANs that neach behave as if they were configured on a separate physical switch.
* Created on a Layer 2 switch to reduce the size of the broadcast domain - increasing network performance.
* VLANs create a logical broadcast domain that can span multiple physical LAN segments.
* When VLANs are implemented on a switch, the transmission of unicast, multicast, and broadcast traffic from a host in a particular VLAN are restricted to the devices that are in that VLAN.
* VLANs are based on logical connections, instead of physical connections.
* Used in switched local area networks, MANs and WANs.
* Helps segment access to different parts of the organization - gives flexibility.
* Helps group devices within a LAN - groups of devices within a VLAN communicate as if they were attached to the same wire.
* Never use default VLAN 1 - security issue.
* Each VLAN is considered a seperate logical network, and packets destined for stations that do not belong to the VLAN must be forwarded through a device taht supports routing.
* Each VLAN in a switched network corresponds to an IP network, e.g. Faculty - VLAN 10 - 172.17.10.21/24.

#### VLAN Benefits:
* Security: Sensitive data can be seperated from the rest of the network, access and policies (ACL's).
* Cost reduction: Reduced need of equipment and network upgrades, efficient use of existing bandwidth/uplinks.
* Better performance: Dividing flat Layer 2 networks into multiple broadcast domains reduces unnecessary traffic.
* Shrink broadcast domains: Dividing a network into VLANs reduces no. devices in the broadcast domain.
* Improved IT staff efficiency: Easier to manage the network e.g. policy and procedure configuration on ports.
* Simpler project and application management: Aggregate users and network devices to support business or geographic req.

#### VLAN Types:
* Data VLAN: Carries user-generated traffic e.g. connect workers PC to Data Point that connects back to MDF and then into switches port configured with DATA VLAN. NOTE: Voice traffic should on a seperate VLAN to data.
* Voice VLAN: Carries voice traffic e.g. connect workers IP-Phone to Data Point that connects back to MDF and then into a switches port configured with VOICE VLAN. NOTE: This assures bandwidth to ensure voicequality, use delay of less than 150ms across the network.
* Default VLAN: All switch ports become part of the default VLAN after initual boot up. Don't use the default VLAN, put all ports on a newly created VLAN.
* Native VLAN: Assigned to an 802.1Q trunk port. Trunk ports are the links between switches that support the transmission of traffic associated with more than one VLAN. An 802.1Q trunk port supports traffic coming from many VLANs (tagged traffic), as well as traffic that does not come from a VLAN (untagged traffic). Native VLANs are used to maintain backward compatibility with untagged traffic common to legacy LAN scenarios. NOTE: Best practice to configure native VLAN as an unsued VLAN, distinct from VLAN 1. It is not unusual to dedicate a fixed VLAN to serve the role of the native VLAN for all trunk ports in the switched domain.
* Management VLAN: Is any VLAN configured to access the management capabilities of a switch (e.g. management port). NOTE: Management VLAN is VLAN 1 by default, reconfigure another VLAN to be used for management, otherwise it's a security risk.

#### VLAN Trunk:
* Point-to-point link between two network devices taht carries more than one VLAN.
* VLAN trunks/trunk ports allow VLAN traffic to propagate between switches, so that devices which are in the same VLAN but connected to different switches, can communicate without the intervention of a router.

#### VLAN Tagging:
* When a switch receives a frame on a port configured in "ACCESS MODE" and assigned a VLAN, the switch inserts a VLAN tag into the Ethernet 802.1Q Frame header, recalculates the FCS, and sends the tagged frame out of a trunk port.
* VLAN Tag Field Details: Type (2-byte tag protocol ID), User priority (3-bit value), Canonical Format Identifier (CFI - 1-bit), VLAN ID (VID - 12-bit).

#### Router-on-a-stick:
A method of routing between VLANs, e.g. connecting a trunk port on the switch to the router, this allows all the VLANs to pass over a single link.
* Saves a lot of interfaces on both the switch and the router.
* Downside: The trunk is only one link, speed might be limited depending on port capabilities.

## 1.1 Configure, verify, and troubleshoot VLANs (normal/extended range) spanning multiple switches.

#### Verification commands:
* show vlan
* show vlan brief
* show vlan name ACCESS
* show interfaces F0/18 switchport
* show interfaces vlan 10
* vlan database show
* show ip interface brief

## 1.1.a Access ports (data and voice).
```
SW(config)# vlan 10
SW(config-vlan)# name ACCESS
SW(config-vlan)# exit
SW(config)# int Gi0/1
SW(config-if)# switchport mode access
SW(config-if)# switchport access vlan 10
SW(config-if)# interface range Fa0/1 - 2
SW(config-if)# switchport mode access
SW(config-if)# switchport access vlan 10

NOTE: If you do not include "switchport mode access", the interfaces Administrative Mode will be "dynamic auto" and not "static access"

Remove switchport mode:
SW(config)# int F0/18
SW(config-if)# no switchport access vlan

Verify switchport on interface: 
SW# show interfaces Fa0/1 switchport

Delete VLAN:
Option 1:
SW(config)# no vlan 10

Option 2: Deleting vlan.dat file
SW(config)# delete flash:vlan.dat
or
SW(config)# delete vlan.dat

NOTE: Remember to reassign all memer ports to a different VLAN, any ports not an active VLAN are unable to communicate with other hosts.
```

## 1.1.b Default VLAN.
```

```
